I'll walk through a quick example of this in action with
an application that we'll use in IAM roles to access AWS services.
As you can see, I'm logged into my AWS account
and I will use the Management Console to demonstrate setting up an IAM role.
First, I'll go into IAM and create a new IAM role.
The IAM role will be used by an application running on an EC2 instance.
This is also called an instance profile role.
I will choose EC2 as the service that will be able to use the role.
This effectively defines who we will trust assume the role.
As you can see, other services such as Lambda can also be trusted to assume the role.
We can also allow other AWS accounts,
web identities, and SAML 2.0 identity providers to assume this role.
Now let's define what actions that this role has permissions to perform.
We will choose an existing policy that provides the role full permissions to S3 for now.
I'm also going to assign my role of policy which will
allow me to log into the instance to test the application.
I'm going to give the role name, and I'm going to create the role.
Now that I've created the role,
I'm going to assign the role to my application server instance.
So I'm going to go to the EC2 dashboard and find my application server.
Here I have my application server running, and right now,
it does not have a role assigned to it,
so I'm going to assign the role.
This is the role that I had just created.
So now that instance has the role attached,
I'm going to go ahead and login to the instance using
Systems Manager and use the Session Manager feature to open an SSH session.
From here, I will attempt to make calls to the AWS API.
The application, in this case,
will be the AWS CLI application.
However, this can apply to any application code running on the instance.
Because the instance is assigned the role,
I do not need to use any explicit API keys to make my calls.
So first, I will call the API to list my S3 buckets.
So I've successfully been able to list my buckets that I know that the role is working.
Next, I'll try to create a simple text file that I can write to a specific S3 bucket.
So I'm going to copy this text file and upload it to,
I'm going to choose this last S3 bucket, udacity-cand-c3-l1-walkthrough bucket.
Copy the bucket name, and there it is.
I was successfully able to interact with the AWS API using an instance profile role.